
Cloud Forensics: Threat Assessment and Proposed 
Mitigations 
Abstract. Cloud Computing is a broad but ambiguous term that can refer to a 
variety of dynamically allocated services. Cloud Computing may be viewed as a 
two-edged sword in terms of law enforcement and forensic inquiry. On the one 
hand, acquiring digital evidence from cloud sources may present difficult tech-
nological and inter-jurisdictional legal challenges. Using cloud storage and pro-
cessing capabilities, on the other hand, can help to speed up the forensics process 
and focus the investigation on significant evidence earlier in the investigation. It 
is possible that traditional evidence gathering and recovery methods may no 
longer be relevant in the cloud due to the dispersed nature of data processing. 
Because of the dynamic genre of Cloud Computing, digital forensics has had to 
deal with new issues. Throughout this article, the foundations of Cloud Compu-
ting architecture will be discussed in depth. As well as that, we give thorough 
research of forensic threats in Cloud Computing and provide viable solutions. 
Keywords: Cloud Computing, Cloud Forensics, Threats, Possible Mitigations, 
Digital Investigations. 
1  Introduction 
1.1  Cloud Computing 
Computing in the cloud refers to the continuous availability of computer system re-
sources in certain specified data storage and processing ability, without any client hav-
ing direct effective participation. There are a variety of meanings attached to the word 
for many people who enjoy looking for information in the cloud. Easy to reconfigure, 
the shared array of efficient resources on the network may be rearranged in a straight-
forward manner [1]. Payment-per-use (PPP) is how the cloud works. Users make re-
quests for services they require, and service providers respond to those requests. Mul-
tiple users can share the same instance of software in the cloud thanks to multi-tenancy. 
Elasticity is another essential aspect of the cloud that allows for the scaling of resources 
up and down based on demand. All of the characteristics described above are targeted 
at improving cloud services. 
Concerns have been expressed about data privacy and security if sensitive company 
data is outsourced to the cloud. The most essential pillar for every respectable business 
is its security policies, and applying them across virtual cloud environments is a diffi-
cult challenge. The unidentified physical location of the organization's assets compli-
cates matters even further. If a security breach occurs, the corporate security team wants 
to be able to conduct its own investigation without the aid of a third party. However, in 
the cloud, this is no longer possible: all sources of evidence are controlled by the Cloud 
Service Provider (CSP), as the CSP has complete control over the environment. In the 
2 
best-case situation, a trustworthy third party acts as a trustee and ensures the CSP's 
trustworthiness. 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology has developed five key Cloud 
Computing characteristics: on-demand self-service, broad network access, resource 
pooling, rapid flexibility or growth, and measured service. Others characterized Cloud 
Computing as being dynamic and easily extensible to deliver virtualized resources to 
clients via the Internet. Users do not need to know the physical characteristics of the 
cloud. 
1.2  Cloud Forensics 
Cloud forensics refers to a multidisciplinary approach to Cloud Computing and digital 
forensics. It is, without a doubt, separate from standard forensic PCs. It is a subfield of 
network forensics that deals with forensic investigators on any type of public or private 
network. Companies are embracing cloud computing, but they are concerned about 
compliance and the rising number of cybercrimes committed in cloud settings. Using 
cloud-based architecture, detectives must carry out digital forensic-style investigations 
to assess, preserve, gather, and find all evidence so it may be handled correctly in a 
jurisdiction. This method of identifying, storing, collecting, and analyzing all evidence 
information is commonly referred to as cloud forensics [11]. 
The capacity of cloud forensic investigators to perform an investigation is mostly 
determined by the methodology and tools used to extract useful digital evidence from 
a system. The digital forensic procedures and frameworks used today to conduct digital 
investigations are incapable of meeting the cloud environment's criteria and expecta-
tions for contemporary innovation. This is because computer technology is always 
evolving, and forensic technology appears to be falling behind. 
To combat digital crimes, law enforcement has turned to cloud forensics. These dif-
ficulties include accessing numerous copies of stored data and tracing evidence across 
various countries, as well as the reliability of the evidence, ownership of the evidence, 
and most crucially, preserving chain-of-custody during the whole inquiry. 
Within this paper, the focus will be mainly on the threats placed in the era of cloud 
forensics and their different types along with possible solutions. 
 
2  Background Theory 
2.1  Cloud Computing Architecture 
People use the Internet to gain access to cloud-based apps, storage, and services. The 
cloud may be accessed by any device that is linked to the Internet, such as computers, 
tablets, mobile phones, and so on. Users can obtain cloud services from cloud service 
providers. Depending on the user, cloud services can be classified into a variety of cat-
egories. Major service delivery models are SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS. 
3 
Software as a Service (SaaS). Third party providers host software or applications and 
allow customers to use them on a demand basis, in this form of Cloud Computing. 
Platform as a service (PaaS). According to this concept, it gives users with a platform 
and an environment in which to create their own apps or service. 
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS). They give you with a virtualized computing ma-
chine and help you save money on server and data-center purchases.  
 
Lately, in Cloud Community, there are four cloud deployment models: 
Private Cloud. Cloud infrastructure is controlled by the business or a third party and 
operates entirely within a single organization, whether on-premises or off-premises. A 
company may be motivated to establish a private cloud for a variety of reasons. These 
characteristics are explored in the following order: The priority is to maximize and op-
timize the usage of current in-house resources. Furthermore, Private Cloud businesses 
include characteristics such as data security, data privacy, and trust, making them an 
appealing alternative. Third, even now, the cost of transferring data from a local IT 
infrastructure to a Public Cloud might be prohibitively high. Fourth, corporations al-
ways seek total control over key operations that take place outside of their own country. 
Researchers and teachers often use private clouds for research and teaching. 
Community Cloud. Businesses collaborate to create a cloud infrastructure that is com-
patible with their demands and laws as well as their goals and concerns. A degree of 
economic scalability and democratic balance exists in the cloud community. One of the 
community's organizations, or a third party supplier, may host the cloud infrastructure. 
Public Cloud. Essentially, this is a better version of the current Cloud Computing de-
ployment model. People utilize the public cloud, and CSPs have total control over it, 
with their own policies, value and profit models, pricing, and invoicing. Force.com, 
Google App Engine, and Amazon S3, EC2 are just a few examples of public clouds. 
Hybrid Cloud. There are numerous clouds (private, communal, or public) in this cloud 
architecture that remain independent entities but are linked by proprietary technology 
that enables data and application mobility (e.g., cloud bursting for load-balancing be-
tween clouds). Associations, for example, might use the hybrid cloud model to restruc-
ture their fundamental capabilities by transferring peripheral business tasks to the cloud 
while maintaining control over vital activities on-premises via the private cloud. 
 
The essential components of cloud architecture are as follows:  
4 
Virtualization. Cloud Computing is based on the virtualization of servers, storage, and 
networks. This layer allows several applications to seamlessly use the same physical 
resources, increasing the efficiency of servers, storage, and networking throughout the 
organization. 
Infrastructure. There are, in fact, actual servers. All of the traditional data center com-
ponents, such as servers, persistent storage, and networking equipment such as switches 
and routers, are included in the cloud infrastructure. 
Middleware. As in traditional data centers, networked components, applications, and 
software may connect with one another thanks to software components such as data-
bases and communications applications. 
Management. These technologies allow for continuous monitoring of the performance 
and capacity of a cloud environment. From a single console, tracking the usage, de-
ploying new apps, integrating data, and ensuring disaster recovery can be managed by 
the IT Teams. 
Automation Software. Automation and pre-defined policies can help to save costs, 
streamline application delivery, relieve IT workloads, and offer vital IT services. Au-
tomation is utilized in a cloud system not just to easily scale up system resources to 
meet a surge in demand for processing capacity, but also to install applications to suit 
ever-changing market demands or to assure administration throughout a cloud environ-
ment. 
3  Related Work 
3.1  Literature Survey 
Cloud computing provides significant technological and legal challenges for digital in-
vestigators, and solutions to many of these concerns are in their early stages. Cloud 
computing is always changing. As a result, many of the existing recommended solu-
tions to these problems rely on CSP co-operation. According to [6], CSPs are capable 
of providing law enforcement with tools and systems through forensic preparedness, 
such as data collection methodologies, thorough log management, safe and trustworthy 
data provenance, and so on. Adoption of these solutions may not improve the CSP's 
bottom line, but it should be a priority on ethical and legal grounds. 
The use of evidence reduction to establish a parallel process through the deletion of 
known superfluous material and deduplication is one strategy given in numerous liter-
ary works. This parallel process would deal with a smaller collection of information 
and attempt to answer fewer perplexing questions, functioning as a type of triage for 
the overall investigation process. The complete dataset would be scrutinized only if the 
5 
triage revealed possibly suspicious activities. This reduction process introduces addi-
tional issues, such as the collecting method, the reduction process itself to guarantee as 
little loss of detail as feasible, and what data mining approach may be employed with 
as low supposition as plausible. 
Reconstructing the crime scene is critical in order to understand how unlawful ac-
tions were carried out. Unfortunately, in the cloud environment, this might be an issue. 
For example, if an opponent shuts down her virtual instance after engaging in specific 
criminal behaviors, it will be hard to reconstruct the crime scene. However, a regener-
ation event can be employed in cases when a snapshot is taken as a result of each strike. 
Finally, it is proposed that the investigators see incoming and exiting data over the 
cloud [1]. 
Several strategies for minimizing cloud issues have been offered. Regardless, the 
great majority of these concepts are hypothetical and have not been tested in real-world 
circumstances. Regardless of the differences between performing digital investigations 
in cloud architecture and traditional computer settings, established methodologies such 
as Encase and FTK are still widely used in obtaining evidence from the cloud. Data 
gathering is the first practical duty that digital investigators must do. Just one study 
analyzed and investigated the present tools utilized in remotely data gathering. This 
tool is known as Forensics OpenStack tools (FROST). Rather than communicating with 
the operating system within the guest virtual machines, it talks with the cloud adminis-
trative plane. FROST is the first forensics capability built into an Infrastructure-as-a-
Service cloud model. The CSP, on the other hand, employs FROST. As a result, faith 
in the CSP is still required, but not in the guest machine. Furthermore, trust must be 
placed in the cloud infrastructure, which comprises hardware, the host operating sys-
tem, the hypervisor, and the cloud employees. 
4  Threats 
Cloud Computing's ubiquity has led to a proliferation of security and privacy concerns. 
Cyber-threats are also on the rise as demand-based and pay-per-use services become 
more prevalent. Since user information is freely accessible, identity theft has become 
quite frequent. The reason behind such an increase is the ever-growing online transac-
tions in which the users have to provide their identification. Let us discuss some threats 
faced in cloud forensics. 
4.1  Data Breach 
Leakage of data in any case, whether it is an insider of the data center or an outsider 
with illegal access. The extent of the harm is determined by the data's sensitivity. It is 
possible that the data also contains financial information, which might cause serious 
harm. To access a large company's data center, you must provide your footprints and 
fingerprints as well as a valid cause for entering the server room Organizations like 
Google, Microsoft, et al. have armed guards outside of their data center, so that nobody 
tries to break in the room [3]. 
6 
4.2  Data Locality 
The cloud's data shouldn't all be in one place. Different backups should be available for 
the data. Only High Clearance officials should know the location of data centers and 
not anyone else in the organization. 
4.3  Insecure Interfaces and API 
Interfaces and APIs are commonly exposed to unauthorized access, plain text content 
transfer authentication, and cloud software exposure due to the open nature of cloud 
services and their interfaces and APIs. There are three main locations in which this 
threat is concentrated: Data tampering, repudiation, information disclosure, and privi-
lege elevation [5]. 
Malicious users and developers can manipulate cloud services via application pro-
gramming interfaces. APIs which users use should not be shallow. APIs are responsible 
for cloud service monitoring, provisioning, and administration. Weak APIs can cause 
application configuration settings to be changed, sensitive data to be leaked, servers to 
be disabled, and so on. By only utilizing encrypted keys to access cloud service APIs, 
which will authenticate the API user, this issue may be reduced to a certain extent. They 
should be kept on a secure hardware device. 
4.4  Malicious Insiders 
When a current or former employee with authorized access to an organization's data 
and network maliciously abuses his access privileges, the CSP's reputation suffers as a 
consequence. After analyzing this threat, the threat was found to be focused on the 
following areas: Repudiation, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege. 
You can't protect yourself against such a danger. In this scenario, an insider em-
ployee may modify or delete critical data, or update or disclose it. Everyone on his team 
is trustworthy according to the cloud provider. An employee's history may be checked 
before they are hired. They can be given only what they need to accomplish their job 
[4]. 
4.5  Insufficient Due Diligence 
Not having a defined plan to reach security goals, resources, and accurate policies for 
an organization regarding the cloud can be a serious threat. They migrate data to the 
cloud without fully comprehending the implications of doing so, the CSP's security 
procedures, and their own obligation to offer security safeguards. They decide to em-
ploy cloud services without fully comprehending how those services must be safe-
guarded. When evaluating technologies and CSPs, creating a strong roadmap and spec-
ification list is critical for the extreme gamble of success. 
7 
4.6  Multi-Tenancy 
Under Multi-tenancy, numerous tenants share many resources. The most significant 
advantage of multi-tenancy is cost savings. However, multi-tenancy can lead to: 
Interference. When a renter creates an unfavorable circumstance, it has the potential 
to affect another tenant. 
Data Isolation. In a shared server environment, it is possible for one tenant to access 
data from another. 
Riskier Change Management. It is possible that changing a tenant's settings will affect 
another tenant. 
Inadequate Logical Security Controls. Reliance on logical segregation to guarantee 
that one tenant does not purposefully interfere with the security of the other tenants. 
4.7  Denial of Service 
Compel chosen cloud service providers to consume excessive amounts of limited sys-
tem resources such as CPU power, memory, disc space, or network bandwidth - as in 
distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. Such attacks cause the system's function-
alities to slow down and frustrate genuine system users. 
4.8  Encryption 
Lack of data security planning while implementing cloud encryption from the organi-
zation can lead to complexities and financial problems. The greatest threat in encryption 
is the use of weak and common passwords, which makes the encryption easier to by-
pass. Total encryption is also not guaranteed in the cloud because of the false sense of 
security organizations have regarding encryption. Even if the cloud is encrypted ade-
quately, improper handling of key management could lead to a serious threat for an 
organization. 
4.9  Dependance on Cloud Providers 
CSPs are constantly competing and spending millions to be the most secure cloud ser-
vice. But it is dangerous to assume for the organizations that their data will have full 
security under these providers. Contrary to a study, all the CSPs state that cloud con-
sumers have the most responsibility in securing their cloud environment. 
8 
4.10  CMIA (Cloud Malware Injection Attack) 
In the cloud environment, an unwelcome party tries to attack or infiltrate virtual ma-
chines or harmful services inside it. A hostile third party creates harmful implementa-
tion modules such as SaaS, PaaS, or VMs such as IaaS, and tries to introduce them 
into the cloud system in such assaults. As a cloud-based service, the body appears to be 
a new service that is comparable to previous services, but it is not. As soon as the ma-
licious service is activated, the cloud redirects permitted body requests to it. Classified 
as an assault on the service to cloud attack surface [2]. 
5  Proposed Mitigation 
We discuss potential solutions to some of the risks associated with cloud forensics and 
investigations. 
5.1  Adopted Strategy 
As an investigator, you will be looking for digital evidence that may be utilized in an 
internal inquiry or in court. This includes data preservation and validation as well as 
data collection, identification and analysis along with documentation and presentation. 
As a result, a large number of them recognize the urgent need for cloud-forensics tools, 
registration, and processes. Forensics cloud procedures are shown in Fig. 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
Identification. The process of identifying and gathering data in the cloud via various 
processes is referred to as data collection. The data is made up of client-side and pro-
vider-side infrastructure artifacts. Traditional digital forensics consists of a data collec-
tion process that must maintain data integrity while not violating the laws and regula-
tions of the authority where the data is gathered. This strategy should not infringe on 
the privacy of other tenants who share the resource. 
Preservation. Due to the access limits of customers who have accessed material, SaaS 
providers will not allow access to IP data. The IaaS supplier would not provide you 
access to forensic evidence such as disc images or virtual machines. Customers will 
have restricted access to meta-data and other crucial fog files in the cloud. It will be 
impossible to investigate real-time monitoring for cloud customers on their own net-
works, as well as audit network operations.  
When a malicious event is detected, the client and CSP seek assistance from a third 
party to take a snapshot of the present state independent of any data linked to the con-
sumer. When data is "removed" in the cloud, the Service Level Agreement should no-
tify you of the circumstances. Data purging on the cloud might be difficult, if not im-
possible. However, there are ways, such as crypto shredding, that may be used to re-
trieve lost data. Some data may have to be erased or rendered fully unavailable in order 
to meet regulatory requirements. There may come a time when data must be erased or 
minimized, in which case no one will be able to access it. The cloud provider's data 
management infrastructure should be ready and able to satisfy the destruction criteria; 
alternatively, other suitable methods, such as crypto shredding, must be used. 
Examination. The forensic tools made available to the client by the CSP must be stated 
in the Service Level Agreement. Cloud computing relies heavily on rapid elasticity. 
Storage resources and Cloud Computing can be made available if there is a high de-
mand. As a result, dynamic scalability in cloud forensic tools is critical. Most investi-
gations will need the use of both live and static forensic technologies for data collection, 
e-discovery, evidence inspection, data recovery, and evidence analysis. Consumers 
must have access to scalable forensic data collection technologies for use in investiga-
tions.  
At the CSP, incidents involving cloud forensics occur. All characteristics of evidence 
availability, transparency, and third-party trust are inextricably tied to CSPs. CSPs have 
complete control over the infrastructure's data; the personnel should be well-educated, 
and they should ensure that the staff is taught to conduct an investigation and that it is 
not tampered with. 
Presentation. Documentation of investigation is critical in establishing any incident, 
and it is also applicable in cloud forensic investigation. Throughout the inquiry. During 
the investigation, the chain of custody and protocols are incorporated in the document. 
To maximize the chances of winning the case in court, the investigative documents 
must be kept in good condition and be attractive. When an event happens, the employ-
ees must take certain procedures. The record kept early in the incident allows the 
10 
investigators to keep track of all the acts and proceed to retrieve the evidence using 
various tactics. 
A chronology of evidences should be constructed in order to obtain precise answers 
to crucial questions. Data is highly important in the cloud environment, and it must be 
treated properly when it comes to multiple time zones. 
5.2  Possible Solutions 
Local Machine. Depending on the cloud model, the amount of access to forensic data 
varies greatly. When it comes to forensic data, IaaS users have unfettered access, 
whereas it is possible that SaaS clients will have restricted or no access to it. This means 
that the only software that connects to the cloud service on a client's side is their Web 
browser. The evidence found on a local computer may be the last hope. The local sys-
tem will retain some file fragments and web cache when consumers interact with their 
devices in a Cloud Computing environment. Investigators may be able to retrieve this 
data to the greatest extent possible. 
Between Cloud and Local Machine. Internet Service Provider (ISP) audit control 
nodes are another place to look for evidence of client activities. However, whether the 
ISP is in the cloud or not, they must follow the rules and regulations of their home 
country, making the audit control node of the ISP in the local region one of the most 
concerning objects in the investigation. Inquiry record and auditing may be time-con-
suming, yet it is possible that substantial evidence can only be uncovered through such 
tedious efforts. 
In the Cloud. We propose that node data be received directly from the cloud service 
provider. Node data acquired by court order may provide unlawful evidence, as well as 
trace evidence. Also, use of Virtual Machine Monitor (VMM) is recommended. It is 
advised to use a cloud-based virtual environment and Virtual Introspection to monitor 
and investigate virtual machines from a VMM. Currently, data is obtained through a 
cloud provider. They look for, collect, and provide data to law enforcement using a 
search warrant or subpoena issued to the provider. Both examiners and jurors must have 
trust in a provider's technician, the technician's equipment and software used to collect 
data, and the cloud infrastructure via which evidence was obtained, compared, and re-
ported on, as well as the provider's cloud architecture. After examining five different 
methods of obtaining data, we examined their efficacy as well as how much faith may 
be placed in such evidence. Although all of the tools and approaches were successful 
in producing proof, they all required a high level of faith in the cloud infrastructure. In 
order to address the multi-trust issue, we supplied four technologies: The cloud man-
agement plane, Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs), contract assistance, as well as fo-
rensic as a service. Remote acquisitions can be made more trustworthy by using any 
one or a combination of these methods. 
11 
TPMs deployed in each cloud server allow the hardware and associated software to 
verify what software is installed on each computer as well as the health and condition 
of each machine. TPMs deployed in each cloud server allow the hardware and associ-
ated software to examine what software is loaded on each computer as well as the health 
and condition of each machine. In summary, TPMs can validate the trust in Cloud Com-
puting hardware, removing the need to rely on this layer.  
Another method for assisting trustworthy forensics is data collecting from the man-
agement plane. The management plane may send log data, disc pictures, and packet 
captures to the provider, end users, and law enforcement on demand. Because this fo-
rensic gathering takes place within the hypervisor, accessing VM images and other data 
would need sole reliance on the Host OS and below, making it more admissible in court. 
In addition to virtual computers, cloud service providers may also preserve and collect 
data from infrastructure logging devices, packet captures, and billing information. If 
the company and its infrastructure are dependable, they can aid law enforcement with 
forensics. Furthermore, the supplier may offer these services to its consumers at a low 
cost and with minimal effort. 
6  Conclusion 
Cloud is a platform that is always evolving, and cloud users are also less familiar with 
cloud security when compared to other platforms. When events occur, cloud users and 
cloud providers must collaborate to establish an environment that fully supports foren-
sics. To be better equipped to deal with incidents, forensics must continue to study risks 
to the cloud environment. It is also important to train and hire forensic investigators to 
solve the scarcity of cloud forensic experts. In future, we intend to deal for certain true 
situations and break down certain open regions in the regarded field that should be 
engaged upon. 
References 
1.  S. Alqahtany., N. Clarke., S. Furnell., C. Reich.: Cloud Forensics: A Review of Challenges, 
Solutions and Open Problems. In: 2015 International Conference on Cloud Computing 
(ICCC), pp. 1-9, doi: 10.1109/CLOUDCOMP.2015.7149635 (2015). 
2.  A. Bedi., N. Pandey., S. K. Khatri.: Analysis of Detection and Prevention of Malware in 
Cloud Computing Environment. In: 2019 Amity International Conference on Artificial In-
telligence (AICAI), pp. 918-921, doi: 10.1109/AICAI.2019.8701418 (2019). 
3.  M. Irfan., M. Usman., Y. Zhuang and S. Fong.: A Critical Review of Security Threats in 
Cloud Computing. In: 2015 3rd International Symposium on Computational and Business 
Intelligence (ISCBI), pp. 105-111, doi: 10.1109/ISCBI.2015.26 (2015). 
4.  S. Kumra., T. Choudhury., N. G. Nhu., T. Nalwa.: Challenges faced by Cloud Computing. 
In: 2017 3rd International Conference on Applied and Theoretical Computing and Commu-
nication Technology (iCATccT), pp. 50-56, doi: 10.1109/ICATCCT.2017.8389105 (2017). 
5.  G. Pandi., S. Shah., K.H. Wandra.: Exploration of Vulnerabilities, Threats and Forensic Is-
sues and its impact on the Distributed Environment of Cloud and its mitigation. In: 
12 
International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Data Science (ICCIDS), pp. 
163-173 (2019). 
6.  J. Farina., M. Scanlon., N. Le-Khac., M. Kechadi.: Overview of the Forensic Investigation 
of Cloud Services. In: 2015 10th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and 
Security, pp. 556-565, doi: 10.1109/ARES.2015.81 (2015). 
7.  S. Hraiz.: Challenges of digital forensic investigation in Cloud Computing. In: 2017 8th 
International  Conference  on  Information  Technology  (ICIT),  pp.  568-571,  doi: 
10.1109/ICITECH.2017.8080060 (2017). 
8.  P. Gayatri., M. Venunath., V. Subhashini., S. Umar.: Securities and threats of Cloud Com-
puting and solutions. In: 2018 2nd International Conference on Inventive Systems and Con-
trol (ICISC), pp. 1162-1166, doi: 10.1109/ICISC.2018.8398987 (2018). 
9.  N. F. Efozia., E. Ariwa., D. C. Asogwa., O. Awonusi., S. O. Anigbogu.: A review of threats 
and vulnerabilities to Cloud Computing existence. In: 2017 Seventh International Confer-
ence  on  Innovative  Computing  Technology  (INTECH),  pp.  197-204,  doi: 
10.1109/INTECH.2017.8102448 (2017). 
10.  Z. Balani., H. Varol.: Cloud Computing Security Challenges and Threats. In: 2020 8th In-
ternational  Symposium  on  Digital  Forensics  and  Security  (ISDFS),  pp.  1-4,  doi: 
10.1109/ISDFS49300.2020.9116266 (2020). 
11.  R. Fernandes., R. M. Colaco., S. Shetty., R. Moorthy H.: A New Era of Digital Forensics in 
the form of Cloud Forensics: A Review. In: 2020 Second International Conference on In-
ventive  Research  in  Computing  Applications  (ICIRCA),  pp.  422-427,  doi: 
10.1109/ICIRCA48905.2020.9182938 (2020). 