
LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION 
 
To whom it may concern, 
 
It is my genuine pleasure to write this letter of recommendation for Mr. Bhavesh Dhake who is seeking 
admission to your esteemed university. I have known him since 2021 when he joined our firm as an 
intern. After managing and interacting with him extensively, I could observe his tremendous fervor, 
excellent work ethic, and solid technical understanding of information security. I am thus confident that 
he would make an outstanding graduate student and recommend him strongly to you. 
 
As I look back on our interactions, I recall that Bhavesh made a keen impression on me as soon as he 
joined our organization. Even though we were going through a critical period, he blended in quite well, 
or rather, he thrived under our challenging work paradigms. In fact, I attribute his success to his 
unequivocal  passion  for  learning  and  constantly  evolving  himself,  traits  I  have  observed  more 
prominently the longer we have worked together.  
 
With such passion and interest, it is no surprise that Bhavesh contributed significantly to the firm. He 
played a key role in security testing and securing the digital assets of clients from external malicious 
attacks. Further, he also proved his mettle by performing vulnerability assessments, and penetration 
tests, which has been highly appreciated. Based on this, I can confidently state that he has a stronghold 
in Web Application Security, API Security, and Network Security.  
 
Having said that, I would like to draw attention to Bhavesh's exemplary work ethic that brought all of 
his  endeavors  to  success.  Before  beginning  a  project,  he  always  sought  to  gain  an  in-depth 
understanding of the technologies involved, and I found it astonishing to see the zeal with which he 
researched different resources for the same. In fact, the documentation and resources he found for API 
Security, for example, proved extremely valuable and were used in our subsequent projects. Added to 
this, he is a highly self-motivated individual with minimal need for supervision which made him 
extremely reliable. His work, on the other hand, has always been precise, timely, and of high quality. 
As such, I am confident that the dedication and enthusiasm with which he undertakes his responsibilities 
would enable him to flourish in his graduate school pursuits as well.  
 
On a more personal note, it was a joy having Bhavesh work here. His unflaggingly positive attitude and 
receptivity to suggestions and feedback made every interaction with him enjoyable. He is also a sociable 
person who worked well in a collaborative environment and was always ready to help others when they 
needed it.  
 
Thus, I enclose this letter as my strong endorsement of Bhavesh's tenacity, aptitude, and industriousness. 
I fully expect him to succeed as a cyber security professional, and I wholeheartedly recommend him to 
you. If you need more information about how he would make an exemplary graduate student, feel free 
to contact me at nandac@digisec360.in.  
 
Regards, 
Nanda Chougule   
CEO, DigiSec360 