
LOR 
I have had the pleasure of knowing Bhavesh on a personal level for many years as I was his mentor. I 
have seen him grow into a brilliant professional researcher. He is highly motivated due to his enthusiastic 
character and always wants to learn more. What I admire most about his personality is the way he 
challenges himself in different aspects. Over the years, I have witnessed him challenge himself in his 
academics and professional life.  
I am proud to say that during his period as a research intern, he has gone to take on several challenging 
assignments that have enabled him to expand on his skills. He has good knowledge of cloud computing & 
digital forensics and a knack for solving complicated problems. He has also shown similar abilities while 
working on the Cloud Forensics: Threat Assessment and Proposed Mitigations research project. As the 
paper's initial author, he used his extraordinary technical skills to research threats and suggested 
mitigations. His consistent hard work and dedication to this project got it published in IEEE Xplore. 
Events like these show that his perseverance is his finest attribute.  
In addition, he worked on Scraping IOCs to better evaluate certain malware tactics and behaviors, which 
was a significant project. His ability to swiftly understand concepts and put them into practice enabled 
him in implementing Flask to host the website and the Pastebin Scraping API to collect the IOCs along 
with coming up with the Elastisearch and Kibana for data storage and visualization. The following project 
he worked on was "Threat Detection and Security Log Analysis Using Splunk SIEM." He spent many 
hours researching this tool and generating logs every day to have a complete grasp of it. It took him a few 
weeks to understand the Splunk tool, but with his perseverance and desire to learn from feedback, he was 
ultimately able to use it for his research. His enthusiasm and curiosity throughout the projects had a 
significant role in their successful conclusion. 
I was astounded to see that he was not only devoting his time to the research but was also publishing 
white papers to share his knowledge with the community via Null-The Open Security Community. I was 
especially pleased by his voluntary efforts as a judge for the Trace Labs-organized Global OSINT CTF. 
I'm content to watch the students I've mentored utilize science to address real-world problems. 
Aside from his research and volunteering work, Bhavesh has also competed and won in various national 
hackathons, and global Capture The Flag events, along with obtaining an EC Council practical 
scholarship. His endeavors also involved planning and handling events like Hackathons, seminars, 
workshops, etc. His work during these events showcased his exceptional time management and also 
proved that he thrives in leadership and managerial positions. 
In my capacity as his professor and mentor, I confidently affirm that he has gained enough experience and 
has shown great potential throughout his years as a student and an intern. Apart from this, he is very 
optimistic and is curious to learn new things. He is very responsible for his duties and is quite reliable. He 
is among the top 10% of the students I have had the opportunity to teach and mentor because of his sense 
of accountability and genuine interest in the topic. Therefore without any hesitation, I highly recommend 
him for the Master's program at your university. 
Regards, 
Dr. Dilip Motwani 
Professor 
Vidyalankar Institute of Technology 